Document Clone with translations and variants feature for Emails (#717)
mautic/user-documentation: docs/channels/emails.rst

  :width: 400
  :alt: Screenshot showing A/B and Translation preview

.. vale off

Cloning Emails
==============

.. vale on

> To create a copy of a single Email, use the Clone action in the Email detail page actions menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a copy of a single Email, use the Clone action in the Actions menu on the Email detail view.
```

Clone with translations and variants
------------------------------------

> If an Email has translations or A/B variants, it's possible to clone the entire group in one step using **Clone with translations and variants**. This action is available in the Email detail page actions menu for parent Emails that have at least one translation or variant.

Author: New feature from [PR #16131](https://github.com/mautic/mautic/pull/16131) adds `cloneWithTranslationsAction` in `EmailController.php` that clones parent email with all translations and A/B variants. Button appears via `details.html.twig` for parent emails with `hasTranslations()` or `hasVariants()`.

Source: https://github.com/mautic/mautic/pull/16131

> If an Email has translations or A/B variants, it's possible to clone the entire group in one step using **Clone with translations and variants**. This action is available in the Email detail page actions menu for parent Emails that have at least one translation or variant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If an Email has translations or A/B variants, cloning the entire group in one step is possible using **Clone with translations and variants**. This action is available in the Actions menu on the Email detail view for parent Emails that have at least one translation or variant.
```

To clone an Email with its translations and variants:

> #. Go to the Email detail page of the parent Email.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Go to the Email detail view of the parent Email.
```

#. Open the actions menu.
#. Select **Clone with translations and variants**.
#. Confirm the action in the dialog.

> Mautic creates new unpublished copies of:

Reviewer: Vale gives warning here that we need to use 'Unavailable or Deactivated' instead of 'unpublished'.

> Mautic creates new Unavailable or Deactivated copies of:

Reviewer: @andersonjeccel is the "Unavailable or Deactivated" here correct?

cc: @mautic/core-team for visibility.

Reviewer: @escopecz can you please confirm this? TIA!

Reviewer 2: It should make the cloned emails unpublished. Now it's called Active in the UI. So we could say inactive?

@andersonjeccel please confirm

Reviewer: /aside @andersonjeccel can you please confirm this?

Reviewer 3: The right is Unavailable in this case

- The parent Email
- All translation children
- All A/B variant children

> - All translations of A/B variants

Reviewer: We use asterisks instead of dash for unordered list based on our style guide.

@promptless-for-oss please address this suggestion.

 
```suggestion
* The parent Email
* All translation children
* All A/B variant children
* All translations of A/B variants
```

The rendered preview on the Email details page reloads automatically when you switch between variants and translations. For more information, see :ref:`Email content preview`.

.. vale off

Cloning Emails
==============

.. vale on

To create a copy of a single Email, use the Clone action in the Actions menu on the Email detail view.

Clone with translations and variants
------------------------------------

If an Email has translations or A/B variants, cloning the entire group in one step is possible using **Clone with translations and variants**. This action is available in the Actions menu on the Email detail view for parent Emails that have at least one translation or variant.

To clone an Email with its translations and variants:

#. Go to the Email detail view of the parent Email.
#. Open the actions menu.
#. Select **Clone with translations and variants**.

> #. Confirm the action in the dialog.

Reviewer: I don't think general users would understand 'actions menu'. It's an internal saying. We want to literally capture what's on the UI here to avoid confusion.

```suggestion
#. Click the parent Email to view the details.
#. Click the down arrow button next to **Schedule**.
#. Select **Clone with translations and variants**.
#. Click **Clone with translations and variants** in the confirmation dialog.
```

Add this image (name it `email_clone_translations_variants.png` after point 3. Add `|` before and after the image to create extra space. Add descriptive alt text and don't start with "Screenshots of" and some kind.

<img width="863" height="538" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0a0ec5a8-a6cf-4713-806b-e0877b43a092" />

The rendered preview on the Email details page reloads automatically when you switch between variants and translations. For more information, see :ref:`Email content preview`.

.. vale off

Clone with translations and variants
====================================

.. vale on

> If an Email has translations or A/B variants, cloning the entire group in one step is possible using **Clone with translations and variants**. This action is available from the down arrow button next to **Schedule** on the Email detail view, for parent Emails that have at least one translation or variant.

Reviewer: Remove the duplication as we have detailed instructions.

```suggestion
If an Email has translations or A/B variants, cloning the entire group in one step is possible using **Clone with translations and variants**.
```

To clone an Email with its translations and variants:

#. Click the parent Email to view the details.
#. Click the down arrow button next to **Schedule**.
#. Select **Clone with translations and variants**.

   |

   .. image:: images/emails/email_clone_translations_variants.png
      :width: 800
      :align: center
      :alt: Expanded dropdown next to the Schedule button on the Email detail view with the Clone with translations and variants option highlighted.

   |

#. Click **Clone with translations and variants** in the confirmation dialog.

> Mautic creates new Unavailable copies of:

Reviewer: We can make this clear that this happens after confirmation.

```suggestion
After confirmation, Mautic creates new Unavailable copies of:
```

* The parent Email
* All translation children
* All A/B variant children
* All translations of A/B variants

Each cloned Email has ``(copy)`` appended to its name and you can edit it independently. The cloned group maintains the same translation and variant structure as the original.

.. note::

>    The **Clone with translations and variants** action is only available for parent Emails - not for translation children or variant children.

Reviewer: Remove 'action'.

The rendered preview on the Email details page reloads automatically when you switch between variants and translations. For more information, see :ref:`Email content preview`.

.. vale off

Cloning Emails
==============

.. vale on

> To create a copy of a single Email, use the Clone action in the Actions menu on the Email detail view.

Reviewer: @promptless-for-oss please investigate the code changes. Is this to copy a single email from Email overview (listing), or from an Email detail page?

Another thing, as the previous comment, we better use general terms (what readers see on UI), rather than internal convention term. For example, we can't find 'Actions' anywhere on the UI.

Clone with translations and variants
------------------------------------

If an Email has translations or A/B variants, cloning the entire group in one step is possible using **Clone with translations and variants**. This action is available in the Actions menu on the Email detail view for parent Emails that have at least one translation or variant.

To clone an Email with its translations and variants:

#. Click the parent Email to view the details.
#. Click the down arrow button next to **Schedule**.
#. Select **Clone with translations and variants**.

   |

   .. image:: images/emails/email_clone_translations_variants.png

>       :width: 600

Reviewer: Change the width to 400. Currently, it's too big.
